GameConfiguration/1.md, before:

# Game Configuration Format

The .wgc file can be loaded by starting the game with `-loadfile testconfig.wgc`. This file is generated by WorldEditor's AI testing function and its most important feature is to allow game speeds faster than 100% (practically no limit observed).

**Note:**

Reforged uses Unicode-aware WinAPI, the file paths can contain non-ASCII characters.

Older versions (tested 1.27) cannot properly process Unicode paths in strings in this file, you must use only ASCII characters.

## File structure:

| Type   | Description                    | Explanation                                                                                                                                   |
|--------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| int    | format version                 | 1.27, 1.32=1                                                                                                                                  |
| int    | flags                          | bit 0x1: Fog of War (1=disabled)<br>bit 0x2: Victory/Defeat conditions (1=disabled)                                                           |
| int    | base game speed                | pause = 0<br>100% = 1<br>400% = 4                                                                                                             |
| string | relative map path              | `Maps\(2)HillsOfGlory.w3m`<br>`..\..\..\(3)Nighthaven.w3m`<br>For classic: root is game folder<br>For Reforged: root is `_retail_` or `_ptr_` |
| int    | number of players              |                                                                                                                                               |
|        | i times, see player info below | For each defined player slot                                                                                                                  |


### Player info

| Type   | Description           | Explanation                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|--------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| int    | player slot ID        | Starts from 0. Empty slots are omitted and not written to file                                                                                                                                           |
| int    | team (force)          | Starts from 0, observers always 0                                                                                                                                                                        |
| int    | race                  | 0x01 = human<br>0x02 = orc<br>0x04 = night elf<br>0x08 = undead<br>0x20 = random<br><br>Observer's race is completely ignored.                                                                           |
| int    | color                 | Starts from 0 (red). Players can have same color. Observer always 0.                                                                                                                                     |
| int    | handicap              | Decimal 50-100, meaning 50-100%.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| int    | player slot flags     | bit 0x01 = user (1) or computer (0)<br>bit 0x02 = observer (1) or playing player (0)<br>bit 0x04 = load custom AI file (1) or use default (0)<br>bit 0x08 = AI file path is relative (1) or absolute (0) |
| int    | AI difficulty         | 0=easy, 1=normal, 2=hard (higher values invalid)<br>Difficulty for spectators is written to file but ignored                                                                                             |
| string | Custom AI script path | Absolute path: `C:\wc3\_retail_\AI Scripts\my.ai`<br>Relative path: `AI Scripts\my.ai` (double dot traversal works)<br>Empty string otherwise                                                            |

Commit message:

GameConfiguration: add note about human player/observer slot AI difficulty

GameConfiguration/1.md, after:

# Game Configuration Format

The .wgc file can be loaded by starting the game with `-loadfile testconfig.wgc`. This file is generated by WorldEditor's AI testing function and its most important feature is to allow game speeds faster than 100% (practically no limit observed).

**Note:**

Reforged uses Unicode-aware WinAPI, the file paths can contain non-ASCII characters.

Older versions (tested 1.27) cannot properly process Unicode paths in strings in this file, you must use only ASCII characters.

## File structure:

| Type   | Description                    | Explanation                                                                                                                                   |
|--------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| int    | format version                 | 1.27, 1.32=1                                                                                                                                  |
| int    | flags                          | bit 0x1: Fog of War (1=disabled)<br>bit 0x2: Victory/Defeat conditions (1=disabled)                                                           |
| int    | base game speed                | pause = 0<br>100% = 1<br>400% = 4                                                                                                             |
| string | relative map path              | `Maps\(2)HillsOfGlory.w3m`<br>`..\..\..\(3)Nighthaven.w3m`<br>For classic: root is game folder<br>For Reforged: root is `_retail_` or `_ptr_` |
| int    | number of players              |                                                                                                                                               |
|        | i times, see player info below | For each defined player slot                                                                                                                  |


### Player info

| Type   | Description           | Explanation                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|--------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| int    | player slot ID        | Starts from 0. Empty slots are omitted and not written to file                                                                                                                                           |
| int    | team (force)          | Starts from 0, observers always 0                                                                                                                                                                        |
| int    | race                  | 0x01 = human<br>0x02 = orc<br>0x04 = night elf<br>0x08 = undead<br>0x20 = random<br><br>Observer's race is completely ignored.                                                                           |
| int    | color                 | Starts from 0 (red). Players can have same color. Observer always 0.                                                                                                                                     |
| int    | handicap              | Decimal 50-100, meaning 50-100%.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| int    | player slot flags     | bit 0x01 = user (1) or computer (0)<br>bit 0x02 = observer (1) or playing player (0)<br>bit 0x04 = load custom AI file (1) or use default (0)<br>bit 0x08 = AI file path is relative (1) or absolute (0) |
| int    | AI difficulty*        | For AI: 0=easy, 1=normal, 2=hard (higher values invalid)<br>For human/observer: bit 0x01 must be set to 1, else the map will not load                                                                    |
| string | Custom AI script path | Absolute path: `C:\wc3\_retail_\AI Scripts\my.ai`<br>Relative path: `AI Scripts\my.ai` (double dot traversal works)<br>Empty string otherwise                                                            |
